# Introduction to PYNQ Overlays

* PYNQ v2.1 - PYNQ Overlays [[readthedocs.io]](https://pynq.readthedocs.io/en/v2.1/pynq_overlays.html)
* Overlay Design v3.0.1 [[Github]](https://github.com/Xilinx/PYNQ/blob/v3.0.1/docs/source/overlay_design_methodology/overlay_design.rst)
* Overlay Tutorial v3.0.1 [[Github]](https://github.com/Xilinx/PYNQ/blob/v3.0.1/docs/source/overlay_design_methodology/overlay_tutorial.ipynb)
  
---
## Overlay Design 

* An overlay consists of two main parts; the **PL design (bitstream)** and the **project HWH file**.
* Overlay design is a specialized task for hardware engineers.
* This section assumes the reader has some experience with digital design, building Zynq systems, and with the Vivado design tools.

---
#### PL Design
* The Xilinx® Vivado software is used to create a Zynq design.
* A **bitstream** or binary file (.bit file) will be generated that can be used to program the Zynq PL
* The hardware designer is encouraged to support programmability in the IP used in a PYNQ overlays
* Once the IP has been created, the PL design is carried out in the same way as any other Zynq design
* IP in an overlay that can be controlled by PYNQ will be **memory mapped**, connected to GPIO
* IP may also have a master connection to the PL
* PYNQ provides **Python libraries** to interface to the PL design which can be used to create their own drivers

---
#### Overlay HWH file
* The **HWH (hardware handoff)** file is automatically generated from the Vivado IP Integrator block design and it is used by PYNQ to automatically identify the **Zynq system configuration**, **IP including versions, interrupts, resets, and other control signals**.
* The **HWH file** is automatically generated by Vivado when generating the bitstream.
* The **HWH file** must be provided with the bitstream file as part of an overlay.
* The PYNQ **PL class** will automatically parse the HWH file

You can find the hwh file in the following directory
```
<prj>.gen/sources_1/bd/<bd_name>/hw_handoff/<bd_name>.hwh
```
* The HWH filename should match the .bit filename. For example, my_overlay.bit and my_overlay.hwh.
* The HWH is parsed when the overlay is instantiated and downloaded.
```
from pynq import Overlay
ol = Overlay("base.bit") # hwh is parsed here
```

---
## Programmability
* An overlay should have **post-bitstream** programmability to allow customization of the system
* A number of reusable PYNQ IP blocks are available to support programmability
    * For example, a **PYNQ MicroBlaze** can be used on Pmod, and Arduino interfaces
* IP from the various overlays can be reused to provide **run-time configurability**

---
#### Zynq PS Settings
* A Vivado project for a Zynq design consists of two parts; the PL design, and the PS configuration settings
* The **PYNQ image** which is used to boot the board configures the Zynq PS at boot time.
* This will fix most of the PS configuration, including **setup of DRAM**, and enabling of the Zynq PS peripherals, including SD card, Ethernet, USB and UART which are used by PYNQ.
* The PS configuration also includes settings for **system clocks**, including the clocks used in the PL.
* The **PL clocks** can be programmed at runtime to match the requirements of the overlay. This is managed automatically by the **PYNQ Overlay class**
* During the process of downloading a new overlay, the **clock configuration** will be parsed from the **overlay's HWH file**. The new clock settings for the overlay will be applied automatically before the overlay is downloaded.

---
#### Existing Overlays
* Existing overlays can be used as a starting point to create a new overlay.
* The base overlay can be found in the boards directory in the PYNQ repository, and includes reference IP for peripherals on the board:
```
<PYNQ repository>/boards/<board>/base
```
* A makefile exists in each folder that can be used to rebuild the Vivado project and generate the bitstream and HWH for the overlay. (On windows, instead of using make, the Tcl file can be sourced from Vivado.)
* The bitstream and HWH for the overlay are available on the board, and also in the GitHub project repository:
```
<PYNQ repository>/boards/<board>/base
```

---
## Overlay Tutorial
